why are queer men hyper focused on body
image it may involve a social philosophy
called objectification which is the act
of treating persons as objects or things
dehumanizing them and making them sexual
objects instead of real people gay men
more so than heterosexual men tend to
self-objectify and place higher
importance on physical attractiveness
body image issues aren't unique to queer
men but toxic thoughts pertaining to
self-worth and physical care are
dangerously prevalent within the
community
open an app like grinder and you'll be
greeted with body shaming phrases so
familiar and cliche that straight people
even know about them too no fats no
Femmes Gym Fit only I work out so should
you
this incessant need to achieve a hot
body has become incredibly prevalent
with even men with literal Superhero
level bodies complaining about feeling
fat on Instagram the pressure can
trigger more than just social media
jealousy though research published in
2019 by Dalhousie University found that
social demands placed upon gay men to
eat healthily and achieve a perfect body
are linked to anxiety and depression and
have serious mental health consequences
the national eating disorder Association
also says that lgbtq plus identified
folks experience unique stressors that
may contribute to the development of an
eating disorder one such stressor
the inability to meet body ideals within
some lgbtq plus cultural contexts
approximately 84 percent of gay men say
they feel under intense pressure to have
a body culturally defined as hot not
healthy or even fit
hot they are three times more likely
than straight men to have body image
issues only one percent stated that they
were very happy with their appearance
and those unhappy with their appearance
continue to struggle with it well into
middle age and Beyond of course in the
social media era our phones make it
easier than ever to fall into the toxic
trap of comparing ourselves to others in
every way this person has a nicer home
this person has a nicer car that person
has more followers this person seems to
look like Chris Evans in full Captain
America mode every moment of every day
when the fact of the matter is that
Chris Evans doesn't even like looking
like Captain America part of the reason
he was so vehement about his decision to
not continue portraying the character
was because of the intense demands on
his body it's also part of the reason
he'd request shirtless scenes in his
movies if he was going to suffer to look
like that he was going to make sure that
everyone could see it famously during
the filming of Captain America's Civil
War he asked the directors if his shirt
could rip off while he was holding a
helicopter to a landing pad
they figured it would have been a bit
much in order to get his body in the
kind of Tip-Top condition that made
Hayley Atwell slip out of character for
a minute his daily routine was grueling
and his meal plan was bleak
low carb heavy green vegetables and meal
supplements and to boot anytime you see
his body he dehydrated himself for at
least 48 Hours leading up to the Chute
people don't just look like that it is a
full-time job not only to get into shape
like that but to keep yourself in shape
like that and given how imbalanced your
nutritional intake needs to be on top of
intermittent dehydration it's not
healthy to sustain that kind of body
type for very long it's not possible to
look like that all the time
and expecting someone to look like that
at all is a little absurd how much life
do you miss out on by living at the gym
that much the pressure to conform to a
certain body type is even harder to get
a grip on when the Finish Line keeps
getting pushed back over time
as a younger gay man I was told that I
was too fat and would never be accepted
in this world skinny was the only way
forward
and I was told that was easy to achieve
I could just eat less and be more active
and lose weight if only it were that
simple
as I've mentioned in previous videos I
came out pretty young I was 12 when I
first started telling people that I was
gay because I was just too damn
impatient to wait any longer I wanted a
boyfriend and I wanted one ASAP through
my teen years finding other gay people
was near impossible but when I did
manage to find one
I always got the same response ew you're
fat go away it was basically those words
every time without variation sometimes
it felt like they'd all gotten together
and written a script
which didn't help my body issues at all
you see I was sent to a dietitian when I
was seven years old my doctors didn't
think that my baby fat was coming off
fast enough and wanted it under control
so I was put on a strict calorie
controlled diet that my parents my
friends parents and my extended family
made sure I followed to a T
later on I was told that this kind of
dieting at such a young age may have
actually stunted my growth since most of
my male cousins are well over six feet
tall but despite the diet I continued to
gain weight
the only explanation from The dietitian
was that I must be cheating or that my
parents must be slipping me snacks
the blame was placed squarely on actions
not body chemistry
no tests were run to see if maybe I had
a malfunctioning thyroid or anything
like that I was just eating too much
plain and simple eventually my mother
stopped taking me to see The dietitian
because I only left there feeling worse
about myself every time
and As I Grew into my teenage years I
continued to gain weight on and on the
pounds came until I was well over 300
pounds come High School graduation
I didn't start losing weight at all
until I went on a crash diet during film
school since I could barely afford rent
let alone Three Square meals a day I was
only taking in about 400 calories and
even on that stranded in the mountains
about to start contemplating eating your
friend's diet
I only lost about 20 pounds in six
months obviously there was something
wrong not only did I feel physically
horrible since asthma plus excess weight
does not equal a good time but I felt
emotionally horrible because I was now
22 had been out for a decade and never
had a real life boyfriend I dated guys
online but never showed them anything
but my face in the rare occasion that
they'd see my midsection
six months of talking would go out the
window as I got blocked
so I felt like garbage and decided to
find out what was wrong there had to be
an imbalance somewhere in my body so
when I moved home after film school I
made my doctor send me for every test he
could think of for any condition that
could lead to weight gain or difficulty
losing weight
everything came back fine I was
perfectly healthy except for the extra
120 pounds I was carrying around so he
sent me to a new dietitian and three
months later following her direct meal
plans I'd gained back the 20 pounds I'd
lost in film school and then some again
I was told that I must be cheating and
not following the plan
the plan was white rice steamed chicken
with water or black coffee
with a multivitamin my mom thought it
was crazy for doing it but I had never
in my life been thin not for one day
even at Birth I weighed more than
average and I would do anything to be
able to try on a shirt in a store and
not have to walk out of there feeling
horribly embarrassed because the triple
XL wouldn't button I spent another
decade dieting going to the gym
regularly counting calories and watching
my weight fluctuate between 60 pounds
past clinically defined morbid obesity
and 80 pounds past clinically defined
morbid obesity a new doctor eventually
put me on a weight loss medication
a daily injection which works by making
you so sick to your stomach that you
simply can't eat I shot myself up every
day for months not taking in nearly
enough food to be considered healthy I
tolerated the side effects like extreme
nausea and constant shortness of breath
which was actually an allergic reaction
to the shots but I wasn't about to tell
my doctor that because this was supposed
to help me lose weight this is just how
toxic the need to lose weight is I was
willing to endure an allergic reaction
to a very powerful drug just to try to
lose weight
I lost those 20 pounds again
but that was it
finally I'd had enough
after my mom passed away she left me a
little money so I was gonna take that
plus my own Meeker savings to have
weight loss surgery
specifically gastric sleeve surgery a
procedure in which they remove the
majority of your stomach shaping it into
roughly the size and shape of a banana
irreversible and well known for
complications like acid reflux so bad
that you may need throat surgery within
a few years
but I was sick of being fat
I was sick of being ignored by every man
I ever found attractive I was sick of
feeling like a charity case anytime
anyone I knew said that I looked good
so I booked the surgery paid the deposit
booked the flight since the surgeon
doing the surgery was halfway across the
country
and started on the all liquid diet that
leads up to the procedure
after all of that I started to ask
myself
am I gonna go under the knife
get a surgery with potential lifelong
complications risk death on the
operating table for the approval of men
who may very well be some of the biggest
[ __ ] in the world
was I really doing this
did I think so little of myself that the
opinions of headless torsos on Grindr
could send me to a surgeon who would
change the way my body worked forever
so I swallowed the cost of the deposit
and I canceled the surgery
since then I've been doing research into
how this happened to us
how did our entire Society become so
obsessed with lean and toned or muscular
bodies it wasn't always this way
so what happened
the answer might seem
very out of right field
the answer is
capitalism
and fascism
[Music]
Okay so
capitalism is a simple one you can
easily connect the dots to how
generating a sense of culture that
drives people to desperately conform to
a body ideal can result in someone
making a profit but fascism
that's going to take a little bit of
explaining in the culture of today
I don't really like talking about
fascism I have to talk about it however
because I'm learning that analyzing
media in this day and age inevitably
results in hosting a discussion about
fascism that's just the culture we live
in as a wise woman once said thanks
I hate it but one of the difficulties
about talking about fascism and sorting
media into categories of what does or
does not support neo-fascist ideology is
that fascism itself is hard to describe
because a definition of fascism does not
really include the way that fascism is
as much of a process of government as it
is a method and a model the history
class description of fascism as
communism is the far left and fascism is
the far right it's a little bit too
simple even though the word fascism
comes from the Italian for bundle of
sticks much like another f word it
represents a concept that is actually
notoriously difficult to Define for
instance in 2013 a right-wing newspaper
that had supported fascists in the past
published an article claiming that the
United Kingdom independence party a
British right-wing party was fascistic
however a center-left newspaper
proclaimed that compared with the Golden
Dawn party in Greece who do have fascist
credentials and other Fringe parties
evident in hard-hit areas of the EU the
United Kingdom independence party is
pretty mild so basically centrists say
just because something Walks Like a
fascist talks like a fascist and
actively says it's a fascist doesn't
mean that it's really a fascist how
fascist is fascist enough to be
considered fascist we seem to treat
fascism like an asymptote where there's
a point where a political group May
throw out any number of flashy red flags
but it's impossible to collectively
label them as fascist culturally we have
decided that the Nazi party of Germany
was fascist which means that it doesn't
matter how a political body May draw
cues from the Third Reich as long as it
is not the Third Reich as it manifested
from the late 1920s to early 1940s in
Germany it is not fascism using the Nazi
party as the gold standard of evil has
consequences like this by treating them
as this sacred measure of Maximum evil
we have a standard by which if something
is not as bad as the Nazis
then it's fine or at least tolerable or
alternatively when something is as bad
as Nazis it is taboo to acknowledge it
and for that reason we cannot discuss
Rwanda or Sarajevo or any number of
massacres that have happened in the last
century because it makes us
uncomfortable to think that the Nazis
weren't just a one-off fluke of evil
political Evolution Stalin for instance
was responsible for far more ethnic
cleansing than Hitler was and a third
consequence is that we cannot treat
contemporary Nazis as seriously as we
should right-wing pundits who have spent
their entire careers comparing every
liberal and Democrat to Hitler have
suddenly done a complete 180 we have
self-identified Nazis openly walking
around with swastika armbands but the
culture does not condone violence
against these Nazis because they're not
the real Nazis part of this is due to
the fact that our functional definitions
of fascism are rooted in anecdotal
examples of where fascists appear
usually in retrospect because as
demonstrated you could call yourself a
fascist while still being ignored it
really shouldn't be so surprising
that's self-identification
isn't enough for us interest a
re-evaluation of fascism would require
us to remove it as a method of
government and more so focus on the ways
that Fascist governments enforce their
ideology and the kinds of values from
which fascist ideologies emerge so often
we are told what fascism is what it
looks like why it begins why it's bad in
our essentialist thinking we look for
those specific markers the swastika
armbands the skull and crossbones the
Hugo Boss and we don't take these
markers and consider how they could be
reapplied into a contemporary context to
me I think the what and why of fascism
are less important to identify than the
how and the who who is fascism promoting
as the good guys who are the bad guys
who should the public idolize and how
does the governing body enforce these
values but these are much more abstract
and unquantifiable than listing a
collective set of characteristics that
manifest in fascist States or how
fascist states are eyes for instance one
of the more common assumptions about
fascism is that it limits the Public's
freedom of speech and that is true the
government wants to control how the
public thinks so they restrict what the
public can say it makes it more
difficult to spread ideas that may not
align with how the state wants the
masses to think and no freedom of speech
does not apply to being able to say
whatever you want on social media just
like a store manager can have you
escorted off the premises for violating
profanity guidelines a private business
can block what you can express on their
social media platform freedom of speech
simply means the government cannot
persecute you for saying whatever you
want about it with your mouth it was
designed to protect the Press so that it
could accurately report about the
government in America there are no
official exemptions to freedom of speech
however in Canada the Charter of Rights
and Freedoms also include freedom of
speech but this Freedom does not extend
to hate speech that may Target any
particular ethnic racial religious or
sexual minority at least in theory by
literal definition this would mean
Canada is more fascist than America in
this regard
however in practice this is abundantly
untrue and of course by removing fascism
from its existing definition we run the
risk of over saturating it to the rest
of the world suddenly any encroachment
of someone controlling your actions
becomes fascism which if you let your
brain pickle in this kind of nonsense
for too long you run the risk of
irreversible brain smoothing otherwise
known as libertarianism but the problem
remains if everything is fascism then
nothing is fascism funny enough insofar
as political movements go we can put a
soft start date on Fascism and yes this
is going to lead into what body image
has to do with it I promise fascism as a
coherent form started in Italy under the
leadership of Mussolini in 1919 after
the infamous march on Rome and with the
help of the conservatives in 1922 he
came to Power by 1925 1926 his
government had quickly become a
dictatorship all of this happened after
the first world war which many Italians
didn't want to join in the first place
on top of that Italy was facing a crisis
because it wasn't industrializing fast
enough this led to a period of
revolution known as the two red years
basically a two-year period when
socialists were gaining ground in the
country because of horrendous working
conditions but the fascist reaction
quickly drowned out this radical
left-wing government in 1919 there were
only a few true Italian fascists however
by 22 they had won the support of the
rural bourgeoisie and were running large
parts of the country
by the end of that same year the
national fascist party had a quarter of
a million members when Mussolini's march
on Rome happened big businesses
conservative politicians and the Army
decided to give power to the fascists
wholesale instead of giving it to the
Socialists who were far more popular
among voters this made it possible for
Mussolini to become the leader of Italy
in 1922. but fascism as a way of life
was just as contradictory as it was an
idea this happened because fascists in
power were being pulled in three
different directions conservatives
joined the party because they wanted a
more authoritarian version of the old
system they wanted the pyramid scheme of
feudalist power just without the
infighting brought on by the Myriad of
city-states there were also nationalists
who wanted even more authoritarianism
without more violence and there were
also more radical fascists who wanted a
second violent revolution Mussolini
eventually sided with the most extreme
fascist Group which is something we're
seeing play out in American right-wing
politics right now if you begin leaning
into radicalism but you don't side with
the most radical group
you become a Target the centrists have
the ability to just leave in this case
the Italian conservatives but this is
applicable to all governments if the
centrists leave their positions even if
they can't stand the far right that
would mean giving more political power
to the left also not unlike Republican
voters refusing to vote for Democratic
candidates against absolutely
abhorrent Republican ones because they'd
rather elect the Devil Himself than
someone who wants to protect their
Medicare and Social Security
anyway basically the beginning of
fascist ideology can be seen as a
rejection of the modern Progressive age
inclusivity bad it became a coherent
ideology of extreme conservatism in
Italy and then emerged in Germany after
a period of Crisis but was only allowed
into Power after the rich permitted and
facilitated it
fascism
capitalism okay yes but
what does that have to do with being fat
foreign
[Music]
there are several patterns you see in
fascism when we decide to spot it rule
of one figurehead hero worship Master
race purging undesirables etc etc we've
been to this Rodeo before we talk about
all of these things all of the time but
if we're looking at patterns of how
totalitarian regimes deploy fascism
there are some other weird patterns
there's usually a focus on Art and
ideals of beauty and this is where we
can arguably see fascism most clearly
when the state uses force and
manipulation to consolidate the public
interest around A single standard of
beauty this other major tenet to Fascism
is and this was especially true for the
Nazis something we might today call Body
fascism which is simply defined as
extreme views of how somebody should
look especially what shape and size they
should be
grinder this is present throughout all
forms of fascism but especially the ones
based around the myths of Scandinavia
the Nordic Superman the area and the
Ubermensch which is most of the fascism
that has spurred on the men's rights
groups around North America and Western
Europe even though the vast vast
majority of them do not fit the
description of what they would describe
as the ideal male body which focusing so
much on the ideal male body kind of
sounds pretty gay to me if you ask me
granted the blonde-haired blue-eyed
poster boy for Nazi propaganda befits
even a contemporary model for
desirability this could one day be you
or your son your nephew the Nazi party
very strongly Associated itself and its
success with physical Beauty so though
the perfect male body has been an
element of fascism from the very
beginning never was it more prevalent
than in Nazi Germany because Hitler was
obsessed with the art of Classical
Greece to understand what I mean just
watch the famous opening sequence of
Lenny riefenshaw's two-part film Olympia
which documented the Berlin Olympics to
a soundtrack of dramatic music the
camera pans across the ruins of the
Acropolis before lingering on several
celebrated ancient sculptures offered up
as ideals of beauty and artistic prowess
eventually against a misty backdrop we
see one of the most famous Greek
sculptures of all a statue of a stooping
naked athlete preparing to hurl a discus
its surface glistening with oil as
though ready for competition the
sculpture suddenly Fades away in its
place appears a living athlete adopting
the same pose slowly he starts to swivel
back and forth before hurling his discus
with all his might the chilling message
is presented with Stark poetic
efficiency
the glories of Classical Greece are
reborn in Nazi Germany Professor Ralph
Michael Schneider of the Ludwig
Maximilian University said without the
classical tradition the Nazi visual
ideology would have been rather
different the perfect Aryan body the
white color of the marble the beautiful
ideal white male to put it very bluntly
it became a kind of image of the master
race and that's what the Nazis called
themselves but Olympia isn't the only
place that we see the ideal Nazi body we
see in most of riefenstahl's propaganda
films to be fair slim but defined not
too muscular as that would be unsightly
the ideal man was close to six feet tall
clear white skin clean shaven with
little to no body hair for examples
please see Calvin Klein ads the fascism
here or the fashy elements aren't the
presence of a beauty standard as I
mentioned with Greece there have been
very strong Beauty ideals for all of
mankind funny enough the Greek standard
favored the chunkier sturdier men the
Slimmer statues Were Meant To Be
associated with youth boys but where the
Nazis differed is just how specific the
beauty standards were it was like you
needed a textbook to really sort out all
the nuances this was mostly because Nazi
propaganda was facilitated on the myth
of the Aryan race and
that the Aryan race was inherently
Superior by genetic determination in
order to do this the Nazis required very
strong visual indicators to demonstrate
that the German man was stronger
heartier and most importantly more
beautiful leaning heavily into
phrenology the now debunked study of the
various elements of how the skull was
shaped being an indicator of personality
traits specifically intelligence
mythologically speaking and this was
part of Hitler's domestic policy the
Aryans were the descendants of the Gods
specifically the Acer they prided
themselves on looking the part
furthermore due to the fact that a fat
German man spat in the face of their
Master race propaganda there was a
precedent for punishing those who did
not conform to these standards there
have been plenty of historians who have
even postulated the idea that Ernst Rome
Hitler's gay BFF while he rose to power
and the man who ran the progenitor of
the SS the sa was executed not because
of Hitler's anxieties or himmler's
disdain for gay men but
because he was fat and therefore didn't
fit the ideal image of the Aryan man
which honestly kind of checks out nor
would it be the last time that the Third
Reich shot itself in the foot because
something practical didn't line up with
their aesthetic philosophy if Hitler
himself was a homo I think it would be
starkly on brand for him to purge the
only competent member of his cabinet
because no fats no Femmes
retrospectively
probably for the best suffice to say
with the brown shirts out of the way
Hitler had carp launched to sculpt his
own hot gay boy summer I mean secret
police and the Nazis did do whatever
they could to make sure that the SS the
face of the party
would be a very pretty face these
perfect Nazi soldiers became a trademark
of the regime across the world as the
globe suffered from malnutrition due to
the food shortages of the Great
Depression or fattened up because the
only food readily available was nutrient
poor and extremely high in carbs seeing
these svelt attractive Germans marching
down the streets of Berlin and newsrails
created an air of inferiority for many
especially in America which in no small
amount contributed to the massive
signups when America joined the war
remember America was attacked by Japan
not Germany but American boys across the
country signed up to fight in Europe
they had to show these perfect Germans
that they weren't so tough and as it
turns out they weren't
and the Allies won the war and half as
much time as it took America to realize
the Iraq War was a lost cause but like
any time Americans go traveling in
Europe
they make sure to bring home some
souvenirs mostly Nazi scientists but
also they brought back body fascism you
see before World War II a lean muscular
body was not idealized in fact by many
it was looked down upon if someone had a
ripped toned body it meant they were a
physical laborer a gardener or
construction worker someone who didn't
have enough money to not have a ripped
body
because physically intensive jobs were
the only ones that uneducated poor
people could get in fact softer unfit
bodies to a degree were considered more
attractive because it meant that person
had the money to buy lots of food but
the fat had to be well distributed all
around the body not just the belly
because belly fat was a sign that you
probably ate a lot of cheap bread or
drank a lot of cheap beer and really
skinny bodies meant that you couldn't
even afford the cheap bread so you're
probably going to die soon but after
World War II
that all changed
[Music]
suddenly being healthy wasn't a priority
it was being fit not strong
fit look at Charles Atlas who for a long
time was considered to have the best
body in the world today we'd probably
say he has a dad bod because he'd look
fat next to the Rippling abs of
Instagram models how did this come about
well soldiers coming home from World War
II had seen the ridiculous bodies of
Nazi soldiers and Nazi propaganda and
the mythical bodies that Nazis held up
as Perfection and thought Oh I can do
better than that and so a small subsect
began trying to attain these bodies
creating diet plans low in carbs high in
protein with lots and lots of exercise
there was a bit of a distraction once
the Cold War started up because the
enemy didn't look like the Ubermensch
Soviet soldiers were always shown
bundled up in winter jackets so seeing
how fit they were was kind of hard so it
had far less of an impact on the psyche
of the western Army boys but the idea of
gorgeous male physiques started floating
away from the military in the decades
following World War II since America was
busy shipping off anyone without flat
feet to fight Wars in East Asia instead
it drifted toward the well-off the rich
the bourgeoisie because your typical man
wasn't working in labor jobs anymore
attaining strong muscles and ripped ABS
instead they were standing on production
lines or sitting in offices growing
flabby so appearing soft was now
associated with the middle class so the
rich began working out creating a market
for personal trainers fancy diets and
exclusive gyms while off Housewives now
wanted to look like the women on their
TV sets Farrah Fawcett or Suzanne
Summers fascism sets the cultural
anxiety
capitalism uses it to make a buck and
then in the 1980s with the Reagan
Revolution and the popularization of
commercial debt everyone felt like they
could be as rich as the carringtons or
colbys so everyone started hitting the
gym and fitness centers took off as one
of the most profitable businesses of the
decade and it wasn't just because people
were signing up for a year-long
membership on New Year's Day and then
giving up
people actually went the 1980s was a
decade of excess and excessive dieting
and exercise was no different one of the
reasons cocaine was so popular was
because it suppressed your appetite and
gave you more energy but gay men had
been way way ahead of the curve on the
diet and exercise thing we'd been
hitting the gym heard since the 1950s
partially because when our gay soldiers
went over to Germany and saw the sexy
German soldiers we didn't just want to
beat them
we wanted to be them we didn't want to
be Nazis not necessarily
well we ignored the ones that did
in the 1960s and 70s you were far more
likely to see gay men with defined abs
and pecs than straight men it was even
considered a way for straight people to
spot us if a man at the beach looked
like he lived at the gym he was probably
gay
because not only were we trying to
attain these bodies for ourselves but
the gym was a great place to find other
people trying to attain those bodies
a great place to hook up straight men
were actually worn away from going to
gyms in major cities because you never
know what might happen in the locker
room yeah
queers and locker rooms have been a
straight scare tactic for just that long
and then after the rise of AIDS gay men
wanted to look as ripped as possible so
as to not appear sick since people with
AIDS especially Advanced AIDS tended to
have muscle wasting we even started
using steroids because some witch
doctors in New York and La started
telling gay men that steroid use would
slow down the progression of the virus
and then as a community gay men just
kept up with the same regimen we go to
the gym and eat crazy diets despite not
having to show that we're not dying we
go to the gym despite being able to hook
up just about anywhere because
we still want those perfect Nazi Soldier
bodies whether we call them that or not
but those soldiers were paid and
required to look like that but a switch
has flipped within the community it's no
longer that we find those bodies an
attractive option and would like them
for ourselves now if you don't have that
body you're worthless
you're shunned you're subhuman
sound familiar and we say well you can't
shame people for what they're attracted
to
but we do shame people who say only
whites in their grinder profile or
whatever combination of disgusting
racial screening tactics they may use so
why not shame those who actively
perpetuate an unhealthy body standard as
I mentioned before research shows that
social demands placed upon gay men to
eat healthy and achieve a perfect body
are linked to anxiety and depression and
have serious mental health consequences
a gay fitness instructor told GQ
Magazine working in this industry I can
tell you that looking good is not enough
anymore for some gay guys
they don't just want to look good they
want to look the best to illustrate his
point he said he has clients who started
off doing basic bicep curls in front of
the mirror but are now competing in
fitness-based competitions like Turf
games and Crossfit a gay friend said to
me that it's hard to look [ __ ] these
days he said and I guess he's right
there are so many fit guys out there
that some guys feel the need to step up
their game in order to feel visible
accepted and appreciate it if they're
not addressed
queer men's body image issues can easily
magnify into more serious mental health
problems severe depression among gay men
has actually increased since it's become
more acceptable to be out because now
that the world sees what some gay men
look like the impression becomes that
all gay men must look like that and if
you don't
well you better get to work this has led
to the abuse of steroids and illegal
drugs to try and build muscle and
satiate appetites anorexia and bulimia
and even giving up
with suicide we hold up certain body
types as the goal and even the
expectation for what beauty inside the
gay community is but not everyone can
achieve those bodies no matter how much
they diet or work out and not just
because biology sometimes works against
you like with thyroid issues and rare
food sensitivities this past summer I
found out that I lacked the enzymes
required to properly digest
carbohydrates which meant my body was
holding on to every last carb I ate
the long delayed explanation for why I
couldn't lose weight no matter how
healthy I ate the condition is called
hyper rental anemia
and I also have a generalized
carbohydrate intolerance it turns out
it's incredibly rare and related to
diabetes
surprise I have that family history and
I've been warned by doctors since my
teens to be on the lookout
it's not diabetes though it's just
diabetes adjacent it was
one of the strangest feelings in the
world after I'd been dismissed by nearly
every medical professional as just
cheating on diet plans to after three
decades on this planet be informed that
there is an actual reason for it
I have to try to not think about what my
life would have been like if any doctor
or dietitian had decided to run the
weird tests
instead of just telling me to eat less
and exercise
maybe the reason it's so rare is because
doctors are
well they can be very quick to say that
you being fat is the root of all your
health problems when in reality maybe
being fat is just a symptom of the real
problem I was lucky enough to have a
doctor who looked at my chart listened
to me when I told her what my diet for
the last 10 years have been like that
even when I was doing the starving
student thing I still lost almost
nothing she looked at my medical records
and said I want to bring you in for one
more test
the medical community itself is stuffed
with very fat shamey sentiments only
they don't call you fat they call you
unhealthy now I don't want to generalize
all doctors like this but from someone
who has gotten the same shade from a lot
of them the medical community is very
rooted in promoting beauty standards
given how slim their BMI charts are I'm
pretty sure the overwhelming majority of
people are either overweight or obese
I'm not sure which SS twink they used as
a gold standard but there is some
seriously unrealistic expectations about
what a body should be
how many teenagers develop Eating
Disorders just because they stepped on a
scale in their doctor's office and they
lean right in to meal plans and
Specialists and dietitians supplements
and shakes some of the more enterprising
doctors will even have spas or wellness
centers and will push their diet
subscriptions onto their patients which
that isn't illegal but it sounds like it
should be we are told to trust doctors
and many of us do
that's a lot of power given to someone
who's trying to sell you what may very
well amount to snake oil
and doctors have a very easy time
diagnosing someone as fat especially
given how many tests and Hoops they make
you jump through to get anything else
diagnosed it's easy for someone to make
money off of fat people when the entire
culture they live in drives them into
crippling anxiety and puts them under
extreme pressure to just not be fat
anymore especially when the culture has
a more limited ideal of body standards
not even Perfection on some of my
infrequent foyers into heterosexual
social media it is plastered with
cringe-worthy declarations about what
the opposite sex should be and yes it
comes from men and women
because neither group
really knows how the other group's Body
Works
[Music]
okay somebody's got to say this gay men
are not alone there are a horde of
ladies out there who do think that it is
perfectly reasonable to expect men to
have that Superhero body all the time in
fact ten acuerta the mcu's Namor came
under a degree of criticism for not
having the body you know the one that
Captain America has ironically not from
the gays who thirsted after him his nose
rang and his man pearls from the get-go
these were women and straight men who
were upset
about his back oh well more for us at
least for the gays we have groups that
tolerate a range of ways to be fit or
attractive and the more thick fellows we
depict as sexually appealing in media
the more we will seek that desirability
in real life conversely Warner Brothers
Executives in 2021 at least the ones who
were there at the time were having a
collective meltdown leading up to the
release of the Batman it turned out
Robert Pattinson was struggling to put
on the bulk that Christian Bale had
because they wanted to have that
shirtless Batman shot and Pattinson did
look good for his obligatory shirtless
sequence but it was far from what stood
out most in the movie in my opinion
I don't think the world's greatest
detective and Ninja
needs to look like Brock Lesnar but back
to Namor the matter of the fact is that
Neymar's body isn't really something
that would feel out of place on a rugby
field it was a subverted expectation for
the swimmer's body he has in the comics
which I think is perfectly okay but that
said it wouldn't make sense at all for
any aquatic superhero to have dehydrated
ABS the swimmer's body is for some
reason the body type that the gays and a
lot of straight guys default to
author and queen Eric Shaw Quinn has
said there's not enough swimming pools
in Los Angeles for all the men who say
they have a swimmer's body personal
trainers and training apps get this kind
of request all the time as if people
think they can just morph their body
like that sorry but that in itself would
be a superpower people's bodies are the
way they are and they can't control the
distribution of muscle mass or their
bone structure there is a version of fit
that they can accomplish
but it might not be a swimmer's body
another thing that happens is skinny
guys wish they could bulk up to have a
rugby build which also probably cannot
happen
there's a kind of athletic determinism
when it comes to Fitness we look at
swimmers and say all that swimming has
given him a swimmer's body but the truth
is actually the inverse the person had
the right kind of body to be able to
succeed in competitive swimming
it's more accurate to say that he is a
swimmer because he has a swimmer's body
this isn't always the case but in most
cases people tend to gravitate to the
sport that they do because their body
type thrives in that environment whereas
a thicker or chunkier guy would struggle
in the water because he's not built to
accommodate fluid dynamics and the
health industry preys on this
they will make these promises and they
will take your money and then another
Health industry will be happy to take
your money when you get disillusioned
with the first one that's how the
industry is built
fascism
capitalism but again
some bodies aren't designed for ripped
six-pack abs
some people will always be a bit bigger
like me
Even After figuring out after 25 years
that my body really was working against
me
I know that once I do lose the weight
I'll never look like those Instagram
models and I'll probably never live up
to the expectations of some of those
headless torsos on Grindr
but
I'll be able to go into a store and buy
a button-up shirt that fits
I'll be able to go for a run without
feeling like I'm about to have a heart
attack
I won't look like what the expectation
is for multiple reasons my head is too
round my chest is too broad my legs are
too thick as much as it would break my
teenage self's heart I'll never be a
twink
and that's okay
you shouldn't have to look a specific
way to meet the bare minimum body
standards for this community
[Music]
so I think a healthy way to move forward
is to aim to be exactly that
healthy
as a community that should be our goal
not ripped but healthy
make that the standard for the community
and that'll even take some of the
pressure off of the gym bunnies and
hopefully end the epidemic of Eating
Disorders the queer men have been
suffering from for decades fight back
against the rising tide of body fascism
because fascists suck
why would you want to look like the type
of person
that Hitler thought was perfect